Beibarys Sagingaliyev

Almaty, Kazakhstan * fromaktl@gmail.com + +7 (771) 168-0098 + 23/11/1998

SUMMARY

Data Analyst with solid working experience in collecting, wrangling, visualizing, analysing and reporting the data to make
a decisions. Effectively and efficiently using advanced analytical tools and techniques. Applying automation and
optimization procedures to deliver the result. Diverse in knowledge and experience: have working experience in Data
Engineering and Data Science. Building ETL process with Python libraries, and experienced in designing and implementing

Text-To-Speech models (GlowTTS, Tacotron2).
Interested areas: Data Analytics, Data Engineering.
Working mode: remotely, or office (willing to relocate if needed)

PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE

TENGIZCHEVROIL (TCO), Atyrau, Kazakhstan
Senior Data Analyst

e Setting up and maintaining database, building analytical
dashboard, increasing management services operations.
Decreased calculation time of key metrics from 180 mins
to 5 mins ( x36 times) by automating tasks.

e Providing analysis to improve cost efficiency. Optimized
the meal forecast management, which decreased meal
waste and saved over S 220 000 in a month.

e Developing bi-weekly and monthly management reports
and presentations.

CYBERNET, Almaty, Kazakhstan
Data Analyst and ML Engineer

Responsibilities:

Data Analysis

e Built AI voice robot performance monitoring system using Python, ClickHouse and Grafana - which is allowing
to detect failures in a real-time and take immediate
decisions. Increased implementational response rate for
100 percent.

e Preparing and analysing the data using Python, SQL.
Automated streaming of analytical metrics (ETL) by
Python.

e Visualising data on Grafana and Python libraries.

e Suggesting and making decision on potential analytical
project.

December 2021-Present

Built from scratch and automated analytical
reports using Power BI and Power Query, which
ensured monitoring management services.

Serving as knowledgeable data specialist to
teams from _ different departments, on
consolidating and wrangling a data.

October 2021 - Present

ML

Researching and implementing NVIDIA Text-toSpeech (TTS) models to use in production.
Includes selecting and preparing datasets,
setting hyperparameters, training and testing
models.

Designed, implemented and trained NVIDIA
Tacotron2 in Uzbek language, which is now
operating calls in Uzbekistan.

Implementing and testing NVIDIA GlowTTS
model, which is x2 times faster than previous
model and could be used for real-time voice
synthesis.
MAXINUM CONSULTING GROUP, Almaty, Kazakhstan
Business Analyst

Responsibilities:

Automated audit and analytics of small & medium sized e
companies.

Prepared and manipulated data on Excel and Google
Sheets.

Analysed business processes for logistic, retail, and
pharmaceutical companies.

EDUCATION

KAZAKH-BRITISH TECHNICAL UNIVERSITY, Almaty, Kazakhstan
Sep 2021- June 2023 (apprx.)

Master of Science in Data Science,

Current GPA: 3.83/74.00

UNIVERSITY OF LONDON, London, UK

Nov 2017- Oct 2020

Bachelor of Science in Mathematics and Economics,
Honours: Second Upper-Class Honours

KAZAKH-BRITISH TECHNICAL UNIVERSITY, Almaty, Kazakhstan
Aug 2016- Jul 2020
Bachelor of Science in Economics

ADDITIONAL SKILLS

Proficient in MS Office (Word, Excel, PowerPoint), Outlook.
Proficient in googling and finding answers.
Working experience in Python and SQL (Postgres).

February 2021 - October 2021

Made informative dashboards and visualization
on Power BI and Google Data Studio.

Worked with IT department members in
establishing automation and optimization of
processes.

Mentored junior business analysts on client
support tasks.

Proficient in pandas, numpy, scipy, matplotlib Python libraries for data analysis.
Visualization and monitoring tools Grafana, Microsoft Power BI and Google Data Studio.

Languages: Kazakh, English, Russian and conversational Turkish.

Certificates and Achievements

IELTS overall band 7.0, corresponds to C1 (valid until Sep 2022).

GRE General: Quantitative reasoning 161/170 (valid until Nov 2024).

AWS Academy ML Foundations certificate (issued May 2022).

Coursera Yandex courses: Statistical analysis, Unsupervised learning certificate (issued May 2022).
Kazakhstan government scholarship with stipend for bachelor and master’s programs.

KaspiLab: Data Science certificate.
